Oh, Phil, honey,
you’re still up.
Okay.
[ Clears Throat ]
How does this sound?
"Mitchell,
I love you very much.
I not only love you,
but I admire you,
and someday"–
Are you firing him
or proposing to him?
Honey, this was supposed to be
a part-time job.
He was gonna be done
in the summer anyway.
Just... be direct.
I should have warned him.
How do you tell someone
they have a reputation
for being lazy?
Mitchell, lazy?
Yeah, yeah.
He handed in a couple of
contracts late, but I didn’t
want to say anything...
because he’s practically
doing this for free.
I can’t do this!
This isn’t the face of
a cold-blooded hatchet man.
Hmm.
Will you do it?
Hey.
[ Sighs ]
Oh. I’m sorry.
Did we wake you up?
No, I was up.
Worried about tomorrow.
My art teacher
acts like I don’t exist.
But I’ve one last chance
to impress him at our year-end
art fair.
A few students are doing living
versions of famous paintings.
I’ve chosen this one,
and I’m using my own family.
Brilliant, right?
When I told him, he said,
"That’s nice, Alice."
It’s been a year.
Alice? Really?
Honey, do you think
you’re nervous...
because you’ve got
a little crush
on Mr. Jarvis?
No.
Are you sure? Because
I’ve seen the way you–
Sounds like you’re the one
with the crush.
I’ve just never
had a teacher
not like me before.
Well, Miss Davis.
Mmm.
Please.
She’s a gym teacher.
She’s to teaching what
Dr. Seuss is to medicine.
And to think
she didn’t like you.
You?
What’s your problem?
Nothing.
I’m just excited
for tomorrow.
I’m getting a medal at school
because I put out a fire.
Maybe that’s what I should be
when I grow up–
a professional medal-getter.
[ Groans ]
- Luke, what happened?
- I don’t know.
I was just walking by
and I smelled flames.
I was there.
I don’t like this.
We’re not supposed to
be in here.
Just keep a lookout.
We’re 10 seconds away
from creating Luketonium.
- Oh, crap!
- Look what you did!
- Luke, what happened?
- I don’t know.
I was just walking by
and I smelled flames.
Okay, guys. You’re gonna be
dragging tomorrow if you don’t
go to bed right now. Let’s go.
Fine. Come on, Alice.
I’ll be up
in a minute.
Mitchell, I can’t tell you
how hard–
how hard this–
No,
that’s not personal enough.
[ Sighs ]
Okay, okay.
I can’t tell you how hurt
and angry this makes me,
but you’ve been late
too many times.
I’ll need your keys.
Daddy, no.
I’m so sorry.
Honey, I didn’t hear you
come downstairs.
You couldn’t sleep either?
Uh, yeah.
No, there’s just, like,
a lot on my mind–
with graduation
and what to wear–
How does this look?
Wait a second.
You’re carrying your shoes.
How am I supposed to judge
the whole outfit?
Put ’em on.
Oh.
[ Chuckles ]
♪ Hey, hey ♪
♪ Hey ♪♪
So make sure
you give this menu here
a good, thorough reading.
Soup.
You didn’t even look at it.
Check out what’s
below the soup– Sandwiches.
Have you check out
what is below this outfit?
This doesn’t come
from sandwiches.
Look.
"The Jay Pritchett"?
I don’t understand.
They named you after a sandwich?
No, they named a sandwich
after me.
Turkey, bacon,
Swiss cheese, red peppers,
anchovies on wheat?
Most people stop
after salty bacon,
but I double down
with anchovies.
Were you making a sandwich
or attracting deer?
Is this bum
bothering you, miss?
I should get a picture
of this. An actual
waitress sighting in this dump.
I took a chance and put in
an order for your sandwich,
although most people like
their Jay Pritchetts to go.
What’s happening?
[ Jay ] Gloria,
it’s Maxine.
So you’re married to Jay.
Where’d you tie up
your Seeing Eye dog?
No, no, I’m not, um–
[ Chuckles ]
Okay, I get it. I get it.
Here’s that number for that
neck doctor I want you to see.
Thanks.
What’s wrong
with your neck?
For 30 years, I’ve been
hearing it’s a handball injury,
but it always seems
to get worse with stress.
Maybe it’s that audit
he’s got comin’ up.
- Audit?
- Nothing.
Oh, isn’t that cute?
He doesn’t want you to worry.
Here’s your sandwich.
Now you should worry.
Look at it.
My prettiest child.
Why didn’t you tell me
about your neck?
It’s fine. Take a bite.
Your company’s
getting audited?
Nothing!
Three bad days, then it’s over.
Come on! I’m anxious
to hear what you think.
Uh-huh?
I see it growin’ on you.
It’s like Maxine
when she first tried it–
I don’t like it.
You probably didn’t get all–
Hey, I try it.
I don’t like it.
That’s all you can say?
It tastes bad
in my mouth.
It’s like a fish and a turkey
beat themselves to death
with a pepper.
Okay, fair enough.
Maybe a little picky, though,
from someone who prepared
a Colombian specialty...
and said, "Why are you not
eating the hooves?
They’re the best part."
I’m back!
Oh, hey, Uncle Cam.
Oh, thanks again
for picking me up last night.
You’re welcome.
But you have to be
more careful.
I was the responsible one.
Lisa was drinking,
and I took her keys,
and then everything–
I understand.
My senior year,
I had a pretty
crazy night myself,
involving
a bottle of corn mash
and an overturned plow.
Seriously?
Yeah.
You don’t know terror...
until you’ve had to
stare down the eyes of
a Missouri state trooper...
and talk your way
out of a P.U.I.
[ Chuckles ]
Honey,
you don’t drink coffee.
I do when I’ve been up
half the night...
worrying about a project
that’s only one-third done,
and I still
have an apron to sew,
scenery to paint...
plus my normal
crushing workload, so–
Unless you have a better way
for me to stimul–
God.
Coffee’s bitter.
That was your first sip?
Okay, I got the chafing dish,
salt and pepper shakers.
Perfect matches, both.
I may have to
readjust my grapes.
Huh. Wow.
I’ll just give you
a little privacy.
Welcome back
to the light show.
Hi.
Hi, Lily.
Hi, Daddy.
Lily. Sweetheart, no.
No, no, no, no. We’re–
We’re not gonna do that today.
Actually– Actually, Claire,
we’re trying not to use
the word "no" so much.
We just read a book that said
children learn to rebel
against that word.
Uh-huh.
So we redirect her into
a new activity instead.
Here. Well, just watch this.
Lily, sweetie, hi.
It’s Daddy here.
Would you like to listen
to some music?
Okay.
There you go. See?
♪♪ [ Music On Headphones ]
Every new generation thinks
they have cracked the code
on child rearing.
What’s the latest theory?
"Never say no."
I say no every day
in this house.
But at night,
she’s a yes machine.
No.
Well, it doesn’t seem that she
is redirecting her own energy
as much as using a lot of ours.
But do you see how
she’s slowly transitioning
from the lights to the music?
Yeah.
Yeah, I do.
It’s hard to believe there
was ever a time when we just
said, "Stop doing that."
[ Grinding Starts, Stops ]
[ Groans ]
The garbage disposal.
Lily. No, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no.
Not– Let’s redirect you
into a nap, huh?
Actually, we’re doing this new
thing where we let her tell us
when she wants to take a nap.
It’s called "being
your own nap captain."
Mm-hmm.
Come on, sweetie.
Hey, hey.
Phil.
Hey. Did you
ring the doorbell?
Oh, no, ’cause I have
these two coffees.
One is for you.
Thank you.
Here’s my life–
A full-time job,
a three-year-old
and a second one on the way.
And as a favor,
I agreed to do a little work
for Phil’s agency.
The problem is, I’m very good,
and the more I do,
the more they want me.
I-I even turned in
a few assignments late...
so that they’d fall
out of love with me
a little bit.
[ Scoffs ]
Right.
How– How long have you
been standing here?
Are-Are you–
Are you all right?
Oh, yeah.
- ’Cause you’re
really blinking.
- Mm-mmm.
I’m a stress blinker.
Um, and what really gets me
going is confrontation.
Hate it.
I-I avoid it at all costs.
Terrible at it.
Once, I-I, uh– I tried to
break up with a girl,
and I danced around it so much,
she didn’t know
I had broken up with her.
Twenty years later,
we’re still married.
I am... really sorry...
about the cold coffee.
It’s not that cold.
It’s lukewarm, so–
Okay, so–
Funny story about
that expression.
When the kids were younger,
we had a, uh– a wading pool.
Uh-huh.
And occasionally Luke would
have an accident and,
um, Alex would scream.
And we’d say, um,
"It’s okay, honey. He’s just
making it lukewarm."
[ Chuckles ]
What else? What else?
So I gotta get going,
but I, uh–
Okay, wait.
I’m just gonna come
straight out and say it.
Mitchell, you’ve done
a wonderful job
for the agency...
since you decided
you’d help us out
for just a little bit.
We couldn’t
ask for more,
could we?
I wish
it didn’t have to end.
In fact, if it was up to me,
you’d stay on forever,
but it is not–
Phil, Phil.
just up to me,
is it, so–
Phil, I saw this coming,
and-and– Look.
I bailed.
I made an excuse
and left.
But I-I’ve–
I’ve gotta be
straight with him.
You know, "Phil, I cannot stay
on with your firm forever."
Oh, God,
it’s gonna crush him.
Maybe I can get Claire
to do it.
Well, that was easy.
We’re really
proud of you, buddy.
See you at the ceremony.
You’re not a hero.
I put out a fire.
A fire you started.
Was there a fire?
Yes.
Did I put it out?
That’s not–
Answer the question.
Yes.
I’m getting an award for it.
If they gave awards
for starting fires,
I’d be getting one of those too.
I know you have
a conscience, Luke.
Do you see this flag?
It stands for justice.
So when that fire marshal
gets here,
I know you’re going to
look at that flag,
do the right thing.
You were very quiet
all the way home.
Are you upset at me
because I honked
at that old lady?
Normally we leave
the honking to the driver,
but I’m used to it.
Is it because
of the sandwich?
You maybe could’ve
eaten half of it,
said a couple of nice things.
It’s just a sandwich, Jay.
It’s not about
the delicious sandwich,
Gloria.
It’s about being respectful
of a person’s feelings.
But I was
just being honest.
You don’t have to be honest
about every little thing
in a relationship.
Some things you say,
some things you don’t.
Oh. What are the things
that you don’t say?
Gloria, I really don’t want to
do this anymore.
Oh, really?
But you cannot just try to teach
me a lesson and then not–
Okay, fine.
I don’t say this, but it...
bothers me a little bit
that you’re just
a tiny bit loud.
Loud?
Not all the time.
Only when you–
you know, when you talk.
So I embarrass you?
Gloria.
[ Whispering ]
What? Am I being
too loud again?
All right. Buckle up.
Oh.
I’m gonna go
and try to do the laundry,
and I’m gonna do it
very quietly
so I don’t bother you.
Maybe Manny can help me.
[ Loud, Then Soft ]
Manny.
I get it.
[ Mouthing Words ]
Now you’re not even
making any noise.
Okay, this is
way too many grapes.
And this spoon
is modern day,
so if we use it,
everyone at the table
has to react in shock
at the spoon from the future.
[ Spoon Clatters ]
Okay–
And that went
down the drain.
And you need a nap.
You need a nap.
I got it.
Ooh, I lost it.
Shoot.
Let me know
if I can eliminate
any distractions for you.
I got it. No, I got
a finger on it. There it is.
Oh, lost it again.
Maybe you should just
wait until it comes to you.
You know,
make it the captain
of its own spoon platoon.
I understand the point
you’re making, Claire,
but–
Oh, now I’m stuck.
Yeah, Cam. You are stuck.
You are stuck on a philosophy
that clearly doesn’t work.
Sometimes you need to
say "no" to a child.
Yeah, and sometimes you
need to say "no" to an adult.
No, Claire, no.
I don’t need help
raising my child.
Oh, okay.
Sorry.
- [ Grunts ]
- Guess I do
have a lot to learn.
Right now, I’m looking forward
to learning if you will
get your arm out of there...
before Lily gets
to the garbage disposal switch.
[ Switch Clicking ]
Um– Lily, sweetie?
- Can-Can you do something,
please, Claire?
- I would like to, really.
I would. But I would
probably just say no...
and shred her confidence
and mangle her self-esteem.
Okay, fine. I’m sorry.
Stop her! Stop her!
What to do? What to do?
- Sweetie! Claire!
- What to do?
- [ Shouts ]
- [ Grinding Sound ]
[ Laughs ]
Oh! Oh!
Yes!
[ Laughs ]
Ohh.
[ Disposal Grinding, Stops ]
[ Mock Laughing ]
You think that’s funny,
don’t you?
Yes.
Well, it’s wicked, Claire.
It’s wicked.
Come on.
We’re leaving, Lily.
Lily!
It’s living art. We stay
perfectly still for 90 seconds,
basically doing nothing.
Sounds like my first wife.
I don’t know.
She always moved for me.
Long as you both agree
it was only 90 seconds.
Two nerds with one stone!
[ Elevator Bell Dings ]
I love working
in an office.
[ Man #2 ]
Is that your brother-in-law?
I thought you fired him.
- I did. Before work.
- [ Man #1 ]
Then what’s he doin’ here?
[ Man #2 ]
Is he disgruntled?
He looks disgruntled.
No, he always
looks like that.
Hey.
How’s it goin’?
Hey, listen.
Okay, I know
this is uncomfortable,
but we really need to talk
about my future here.
But I– I thought we–
No, I know, I know.
I led you to believe that
I’d be able to stay on here
indefinitely and–
Okay, okay.
Don’t get all blinky.
Oh. [ Chuckles ]
It’s not
all bad news, okay?
You will have me
until July,
like we agreed.
Okay, great.
Could you jump on the elevator
with me real quick?
Yes, yes.
I could use a hand carrying up
some stuff from my car.
[ Elevator Bell Dings ]
Oh, my goodness.
I probably need
some empty boxes, don’t I?
You know what? You head down.
I’ll meet you
at the glass doors.
There was something else.
What was it?
I know it’s in there.
Oh, yeah. You’re fired.
What? Fired?
[ Grunts ]
What’s goin’ on
with these things?
You tryin’ to open ’em?
Mm-hmm.
[ Mutters ]
I better get somebody.
Wait, wait, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait.
You’re firing me?
- I don’t even
like this job.
- That can’t be safe.
- Someone trapped in there?
- The guy they fired.
- Oh, the lazy guy?
- Lazy?
You handed in
a couple of things late.
I should’ve warned you.
I’m terrible
at breaking bad news.
Then why did you
come over to my house
and tell me how great I was?
That was me
trying to fire you.
I haven’t felt like this
since I tried to break up
with Claire 20 years ago.
- [ Man ] Someone stuck again?
- That lawyer with the attitude
they just fired.
They said it was your attitude,
like you were doing us a favor.
I was doing you a favor.
- Why didn’t he take the stairs
like everyone else?
- Lazy.
[ Grunting, Indistinct ]
Don’t worry.
He can’t get you.
Two hours I was stuck in there,
with an entire office of people
staring at me.
I–
I finally had to lie down.
Didn’t help my reputation.
Figures.
You guys nailed it.
Dude, that was surreal.
[ Chuckles ]
Get it?
Dad, come on.
We have a minute to set up!
Where are Mitchell and Cam?
Hey, Manny. Thanks for what
you said before about the flag.
It really got me thinking.
I knew you had a conscience,
Luke.
More importantly,
you’ve got a good–
You didn’t.
Yep.
And thanks to you,
I had them move the ceremony
to right under the flag.
I’ll sign a picture
for you.
- Oh, there you are. I was
afraid you weren’t coming.
- It was a discussion.
If we weren’t gonna show up,
we would have clearly
let you know...
and not humiliated you
in public.
If it’s any consolation,
the lawyer we hired
to replace you...
is already
suing the elevator company.
[ Haley ]
Ow! You’re sitting on my hand.
Be thankful you have two.
I almost lost one today.
Stop being such a baby.
She was nowhere near
that switch.
Shh!
Keep your voices down.
We’re about to go on.
Why are you looking at me?
Am I too loud?
- Is that what
everybody thinks?
- [ Alex ] What?
- There’s a backstory here
you don’t want to know about.
- I want turkey.
[ Jay ]
Save your appetite,
baby girl.
And don’t forget, afterwards
we’re goin’ to Lenny’s
for a bite to eat.
More than a bite,
if you value my feelings.
Oh, great.
We get to see Maxine.
What?
You know Maxine too?
[ Mitchell ]
Oh, we all know Maxine.
[ Cameron ] Love.
Second best hugger in the world
after Mr. Burt Reynolds.
Story to follow.
Guys, this will all be over
in 90 seconds.
Hold your poses.
I really want to impress
Mr. Gorgeous.
Jarvis!
Shut up!
Hey, Mitch,
I know this isn’t a good time.
I just want you to know,
I’m really–
I know, Phil.
You’re really sorry,
okay?
But this is gonna take me
a little time to get over,
all right?
Actually, I was gonna say
I’m really gonna need
your parking pass.
What?
[ Woman On P.A. ]
Our next stage presentation...
will be
Alex Dunphy’s interpretation...
of Norman Rockwell’s 1943
painting Freedom from Want.
[ Applause ]
How do you sleep
at night, Luke?
With a medal around my neck.
[ Alex ]
Shh!
I want turkey.
Lily, no!
She doesn’t understand
that word.
Cram it, Claire.
Control your child, Cam.
It’s not that difficult.
I’ve raised three.
Really?
Cam!
Why don’t you ask Haley what
time she got home last night?
Uncle Cam!
Sorry, dear.
Collateral damage.
What is he
talking about?
[ Alex ] Shh!
[ Jay ]
Your arms are shaking.
Oh, yeah.
I’m sure that
the great Maxine
can do a better job!
You can criticize my parenting
all you like, Cam,
but my son just won a medal.
- For a fire he started.
- [ Claire ]
Luke, is that true?
- Ow!
- Ay, how long?
It’s getting heavy.
You’re not getting
that parking pass back.
I tried to let you down easy.
You don’t know how to
talk to people, Phil.
It’s just like when Claire
didn’t even know you dumped her.
What?
When did Dad dump you?
I didn’t dump her.
I just tried to.
I am losing it!
Just a few more seconds!
I want turkey.
[ All ]
Lily, no!
[ Object Clatters ]
[ Cameron ]
We really are trying to
not say that word.
B-minus.
But there was a silver lining.
"I expected more, Alex."
Alex!
I am gonna call Haley
and tell her we’re not going
to that deli.
I can’t take
another minute of Cam.
You know, I’m not even sure
I believe all these
new parenting theories,
but I’ll be damned
if I’m gonna let her
tell me they’re wrong.
We are not
going to dinner.
I tried that sandwich.
It’s not that good.
You’re not
missing anything.
I sure won’t miss
seeing Luke
and that stupid medal.
I play by the rules.
Where’s my medal?
Jay can stay
with that Maxine.
She’s not loud, like me.
In fairness,
you can be a little quick
to give advice.
Well, I’m always ready to help,
if that’s what you mean, yeah.
Yeah, but if you’re not
careful, it can come off
a little... know-it-all-y.
That’s not a word.
What you mean to say
is it can come off
like I know it all.
Have I always been this way?
It’s why I wanted
to break up with you.
The word "fired"
doesn’t even apply.
You can’t get fired
from a favor.
Okay, sweetie.
Maybe you should just
let it go.
Like I always say,
it’s better to carry a tune
than a grudge.
Okay,
you never said that,
but–
And what about this grudge
you’re holding
against Claire?
I don’t see you
trading that in
for a tune.
That is completely different.
She insulted
my parenting skills.
Which, you have to admit,
you can be
pretty defensive about.
Okay, so maybe we both
can be a little sensitive.
N-No, no.
Mm-mmm, no.
These are–
These are not equal.
No, you have
no idea what it feels
like to be fired.
Yes, I do.
I’ve been fired.
Everyone has.
Not me.
Never?
No.
Nope.
I’ve always
been very good
at what I do.
So then maybe
what you’re feeling...
is a little insecure
about your work
for the first time.
[ Scoffs ]
That’s hogwash.
As someone who’s seen
actual hogwash,
I can assure you that it’s not.
I don’t know why
you’re so bothered by Maxine.
She’s nice.
Oh, good. Why don’t you, Jay
and Maxine live together
eating sandwiches forever?
Can I float
a theory here, Mom?
You sound like
you’re jealous.
Ay, please.
Me, jealous of that woman?
I just don’t like the way
they talk to each other.
And the little jokes,
and she knows everything
about his life.
Just makes me
feel like, uh–
[ Sighs ]
Is that jealous?
Ay, my poor sisters.
Just you?
I thought the whole family
was swinging by.
Who knows what they’re doin’?
Right now they’re all
sniping at each other.
Ah, who needs ’em?
Right. As long as
I have you, Maxine–
I’m off in five.
Hey, Luke.
What’s with
all the hardware?
Well,
he set fire to his school
and lied about it.
You know, they give medals
for anything these days.
It’s going back tomorrow.
He doesn’t get
a lot of medals.
I just really need
one of these today.
[ Chuckles ]
Don’t hold back.
Ohh.
[ Jay ]
My girls.
There they are.
[ Cameron ]
Hello, hello.
Hey, Cam. Hey!
[ Chuckles ]
Come on in.
- I, uh– I appreciate
your coming.
- Yeah.
And again, I really, really–
Thank you.
Yeah.
Here she is.
[ Maxine ]
Look who made it.
Hola, Maxine.
So nice to see you.
Let me get you some menus.
We don’t need it.
It’s Jay Pritchetts
all around.
[ All ]
Yay!
Gloria, if you want
your sandwich without anchovies,
I won’t be offended.
Ohh.
Course, then it’ll
be a Jack Feldman.
[ All Chuckle ]
Hey, have you ever
gotten a hug
from Maxine?
[ Phil ]
Hey.
Yeah?
- Hey, man.
- Is the repair guy here?
He’s workin’ on it.
Um–
Listen, uh,
it’s Katie’s birthday–
Skip’s assistant.
Big 3-0. Still no ring.
- You woke me up
to tell me that?
- No. I grabbed you some cake.
Oh. Sure it’s not
for employees only?
Okay, had that coming.
- [ Woman ]
Who are you talking to, Phil?
- Mitchell.
- Who?
- Mitchell, my bro–
Uh, the lazy guy.
Who was
doing you a favor.
All right.
Just give me the cake.
I’m hungry.
[ Elevator Bell Dings ]
No!
[ Grunts ]
[ Mitchell ]
Oh.